THM - Encryption - Crypto 101

Key terms

  Ciphertext - The result of encrypting a plaintext, encrypted data

  Cipher - A method of encrypting or decrypting data. Modern ciphers are cryptographic, but there are many non cryptographic ciphers like Caesar.

  Plaintext - Data before encryption, often text but not always. Could be a photograph or other file

  Encryption - Transforming data into ciphertext, using a cipher.

  Encoding - NOT a form of encryption, just a form of data representation like base64. Immediately reversible.

  Key - Some information that is needed to correctly decrypt the ciphertext and obtain the plaintext.

  Passphrase - Separate to the key, a passphrase is similar to a password and used to protect a key.

  Asymmetric encryption - Uses different keys to encrypt and decrypt.

  Symmetric encryption - Uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt

  Brute force - Attacking cryptography by trying every different password or every different key

  Cryptanalysis - Attacking cryptography by finding a weakness in the underlying maths

  Alice and Bob - Used to represent 2 people who generally want to communicate.
  
Cryptography is used to protect confidentiality, ensure integrity, ensure authenticity. You use cryptography every day most likely, and you’re almost certainly reading this now over an encrypted connection.
 
Cryptography deals with some maths, such as the Modulo operator. Python is useful for doing integers.
 
The two main categories of Encryption are symmetric and asymmetric.
  
  Symmetric encryption uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt the data. 
  
  Asymmetric encryption uses a pair of keys, one to encrypt and the other in the pair to decrypt.
 
RSA is based on the mathematically difficult problem of working out the factors of a large number. 

Digital signatures are a way to prove the authenticity of files.

Certificates are also a key use of public key cryptography, linked to digital signatures. 

PGP stands for Pretty Good Privacy. 

GnuPG or GPG is an Open Source implementation of PGP from the GNU project. 

AES, sometimes called Rijndael after its creators, stands for Advanced Encryption Standard. 


